qiita_pet/support_files/doc/source/index.rst, before:

.. qiita documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 18 17:59:39 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to qiita's documentation!
=================================

Qiita (canonically pronounced cheetah) is a software package intended for
analysis and administration of multi-omics datasets.

Qiita provides a free and open platform for users to: Easily share and reuse
existing data-sets in the form of studies. Perform analyses (by combining one
or more studies/data-sets) using published and unpublished data that meet the
standards as described by this documentation.  Easily interface with the EBI
repository for automated deposition. Query and interact with Qiita data
programmatically.

The latests tutorials can be found in:
`CMI Qiita/GNPS workshop pages <http://cmi-workshop.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.

If you intend to use Qiita at the `central deployment
<http://qiita.microbio.me>`__ we recommend that you have a look at the
following documents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   qiita-philosophy/index.rst
   tutorials/index.rst
   admin/index.rst
   dev/index.rst
   faq.rst
   resources.rst
   processing-recommendations.rst
   deblur_quality.rst

Commit message:

Qiime 2 analysis help guide (#2177)
* Create index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* creating new analysis figures

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* Update index.rst

* fixing analysisguides/index.rst

qiita_pet/support_files/doc/source/index.rst, after:

.. qiita documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon May 18 17:59:39 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Qiita's documentation!
=================================

Qiita (canonically pronounced cheetah) is a software package intended for
analysis and administration of multi-omics datasets.

Qiita provides a free and open platform for users to:
1) Easily share and reuse existing data-sets in the form of studies.
2) Perform analyses (by combining one or more studies/data-sets) using published and unpublished data that meet the
standards as described by this documentation.
3) Easily interface with the EBI repository for automated deposition. Query and interact with Qiita data programmatically.

Looking for information about our new analysis pipeline? Please see the document here:
  
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1  
   
   analysisguides/index.rst

Beginner's Guides:
The latests tutorials can be found in: `CMI Qiita/GNPS workshop pages <http://cmi-workshop.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1  
   
   tutorials/index.rst
   faq.rst
   resources.rst
   processing-recommendations.rst
   deblur_quality.rst

If you intend to deploy or devlop Qiita we recommend that you have a look at the following documents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   qiita-philosophy/index.rst
   admin/index.rst
   dev/index.rst
