References
==========
# Abarenkov, K., Nilsson, R. H., Larsson, K., Alexander, I. J., Eberhardt, U., Erland, S., Høiland, K., Kjøller, R., Larsson, E., Pennanen, R., Sen, R., Taylor, A. F. S., Tedersoo, L., Ursing, B. M., Vrålstad, T., Liimatainen, K., Peintner, U., Kõljalg, U. (2010). “The UNITE database for molecular identification of fungi - recent updates and future perspectives”. New Phytologist. 186(2): 281-285.
# Amir, A., McDonald, D., Navas-Molina, J.A., Kopylova, E., Morton, J., Xu, Z.Z., Kightley, E.P.,  Thompson, L.R., Hyde, E.R., Gonzalez, A., Knight, R. (2017) “Deblur rapidly resolves single-nucleotide community sequence patterns.” mSystems. 2 (2) e00191-16.*
# Caporaso, J., Lauber, C.L., Walter, W.A. Berg0Lyons, D., Huntley, J., Fierer, N., Owens, S.M., Betley, J., Fraser, L., Mauer, M., Gormley, N., Gilbert, J.A., Smith, G., Knight, R., (2012) “Ultra-high-throughput microbial community analysis on the Illumina HiSeq and MiSeq platforms”. ISME J.
# Chou, H.H., Holmes, M.H. (2001). “DNA sequence quality trimming and vector removal”. Bioinformatics. 17 (12):1093–1104.
# Ewing, B., Hillier, L., Wendi, M.C., Green, P. (1998). (1998). "Base-calling of automated sequencer traces using phred. I. Accuracy assessment". Genome Research. 8 (3): 175–185.
# Golay, Marcel J. E. (1949). "Notes on Digital Coding". Proc. IRE. (37): 657
# Kopylova, E., Noe, L., Touzet, H. (2012). “SortMeRNA: fast and accurate filtering of ribosomal RNAs in metatranscriptomic data”. Bioinformatics. 28 (24) 3211-7.
# McDonald, D., Price, M. N., Goodrich, J., Nawrocki, E. P., DeSantis, T. Z., Probst, A., Anderson, G. L., Knight, R.,  Hugenholtz, P. (2012). “An improved Greengenes taxonomy with explicit ranks for ecological and evolutionary analyses of bacteria and archaea.” The ISME Journal. 6(3): 610–618.
# Navas-Molina, J.A., Peralta-Sánchez, J.M., González, A., McMurdie, P.J., Vázquez-Baeza, Y., Xu, Z., Ursell, L.K., Lauber, C., Zhou, H., Song S.J., Huntley, J., Ackermann, G.L., Berg-Lyons, D., Holmes, S., Caporaso, J.G., Knight, R. (2013). “Advancing Our Understanding of the Human Microbiome Using QIIME”. Methods in Enzymology. (531): 371-444
# Quast, C., Pruesse, E., Yilmaz, P., Gerken, J., Schweer, T., Yarza, P., Peplies, J., Glöckner, F. O. (2013). “The SILVA ribosomal RNA gene database project: improved data processing and web-based tools”. Nucl. Acids Res. 41 (D1): D590-D596.
