qiita_pet/support_files/doc/source/dev/rest.rst, before:

.. _plugins:

.. index :: rest

Qiita REST API
==============

The Qiita REST API is currently only for internal use and is composed of the
following endpoints:

+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Action | URI                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                              |
+========+===========================================================+==========================================================================================================================================================+
|GET     |  ``/api/v1/study/<int>``                                  | Get study details (title, contacts, abstract, description and alias).                                                                                    |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/samples``                           | Get samples associated with a study and the available metadata headers for these samples.                                                                |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/samples?categories=foo,bar``        | Get metadata categories foo and bar for all samples in the study.                                                                                        | 
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/status``                            | The status of a study (whether or not the study: is public, has sample information, sample information has warnings and a list of existing preparations. |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/person?name=foo&affiliation=bar``               | See if a person exists.                                                                                                                                  |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study``                                         | Create a study (mirrors study creation on qiita UI with minimal requirements).                                                                           |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/person?name=foo&affiliation=bar&email=address`` | Create a study person (ie lab person or PI).                                                                                                             |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/preparation``                       | Associate a prep with a study.                                                                                                                           |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/preparation/<int>/artifact``        | Associate filepaths to a preparation, assuming this filepaths are present in the uploads folder.                                                         |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

ENH/DOC: update/add samples to sample information via rest

qiita_pet/support_files/doc/source/dev/rest.rst, after:

.. _plugins:

.. index :: rest

Qiita REST API
==============

The Qiita REST API is currently only for internal use and is composed of the
following endpoints:

+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Action | URI                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                              |
+========+===========================================================+==========================================================================================================================================================+
|GET     |  ``/api/v1/study/<int>``                                  | Get study details (title, contacts, abstract, description and alias).                                                                                    |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/samples``                           | Get samples associated with a study and the available metadata headers for these samples.                                                                |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|PATCH   | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/samples``                           | Update sample metadata or add samples to the sample information.                                                                                         |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/samples?categories=foo,bar``        | Get metadata categories foo and bar for all samples in the study.                                                                                        | 
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/status``                            | The status of a study (whether or not the study: is public, has sample information, sample information has warnings and a list of existing preparations. |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|GET     | ``/api/v1/person?name=foo&affiliation=bar``               | See if a person exists.                                                                                                                                  |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study``                                         | Create a study (mirrors study creation on qiita UI with minimal requirements).                                                                           |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/person?name=foo&affiliation=bar&email=address`` | Create a study person (ie lab person or PI).                                                                                                             |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/preparation``                       | Associate a prep with a study.                                                                                                                           |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|POST    | ``/api/v1/study/<int>/preparation/<int>/artifact``        | Associate filepaths to a preparation, assuming this filepaths are present in the uploads folder.                                                         |
+--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
